# .NET Core 6.0 API Template This template provides a Clean Architecture structure for building Web API projects using .NET Core 6.0. It is designed to help developers set up scalable, maintainable, and testable applications quickly. The template ensures separation of concerns, with a focus on clarity and flexibility. --- ## Table of Contents - [Getting Started](#getting-started) - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) - [Project Structure](#project-structure) - [Setup and Installation](#setup-and-installation) - [Running the Application](#running-the-application) - [Project Features](#project-features) - [Contributing](#contributing) - [License](#license) --- ## Getting Started These instructions will help you set up and run the application locally. ### Prerequisites To run this project, ensure that you have the following installed on your machine: - [.NET 6.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) - [Visual Studio 2022 or Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) - [SQL Server (Optional)] or any other database of your choice. --- ## Project Structure The project follows Clean Architecture principles. The main projects are divided into layers as follows: - **API**: Contains controllers, which expose the API endpoints. - **Application**: Contains application logic, including services, use cases, and interfaces. - **Domain**: Contains core business models and domain logic. - **Infrastructure**: Handles external services like database, file system, etc. - **Tests**: Contains unit and integration tests. --- ## Setup and Installation Follow the steps below to set up the project: ### 1. Clone the Repository ```bash git clone https://github.com/muhammederencennetkusu/DOTNET_CORE_6.0_API_TEMPLATE.git ``` ### 2. Navigate to the Project Directory ```bash cd DOTNET_CORE_6.0_API_TEMPLATE ``` ### 3. Restore the NuGet Packages ```bash dotnet restore ``` ### 4. Build the Project ```bash dotnet build ``` ### 5. Configure the Database (Optional) Update the `appsettings.json` file in the `API` project with your database connection string. ```json { "ConnectionStrings": { "DefaultConnection": "Server=your-server;Database=your-db;User Id=your-user;Password=your-password;" } } ``` ### 6. Run Migrations If you are using SQL Server, run the migrations to create the database schema. ```bash dotnet ef database update ``` --- ## Running the Application To start the application, use the following command: ```bash dotnet run --project API/API.csproj ``` After starting the project, you can access the API by navigating to `https://localhost:5001` in your browser or API testing tool (e.g., Postman). --- ## Project Features This project comes with the following features: - **Clean Architecture**: A well-organized project structure based on Clean Architecture principles. - **Dependency Injection**: Built-in support for Dependency Injection for easier testing and maintainability. - **Swagger API Documentation**: Swagger UI is set up to allow easy testing of API endpoints. - **Unit Testing**: Test projects are set up to write and run unit tests for application services and domain models. --- ## Contributing If you would like to contribute to this project, please follow these steps: 1. Fork the repository. 2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-branch`). 3. Make your changes. 4. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add feature'`). 5. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature-branch`). 6. Create a new Pull Request. --- ## License This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
